hey this is presto Walker on a table are
nine face-up cards each card displays a
different number from the list 2 4 8 16
32 64 128 256 and 512 Alice and Bob play
a game where they alternately take turns
each picks a single card on a turn and
Alice goes first once the card is chosen
it cannot be selected again the game
ends when someone wins or all the cards
have been selected the winner is the
first person to collect a set of three
cards with a product of 32,768 for
example in the game just illustrated
Alice collects the cards for 16 and 512
which have a product of 32,768 so Alice
wins that game but there could be other
games in which Bob selects a set of
three cards that have a product of
32,768 in that case Bob would be the
winner
but there could also contain in which
Alice gets a set of cards and Bob gets a
set of cards but neither have collected
a set in which there are three cards
that have a product of 32,768 in that
case the game ends in a draw
the problem is of both play optimally
does either player have a winning
strategy or does the game always end in
a draw and how should you play this game
can you figure it out give this problem
a try and when you're ready keep
watching the video for the solution
the game seems like it's impossible to
solve how can you keep track of all the
possible ways that they can pick numbers
and how can a person know if a set of
three numbers even has the product of
32,768 amazingly the game has a simple
solution and you probably already know
how to solve it if you've been watching
my videos long enough you already might
know the trick so we'll start out with a
simple game of tic-tac-toe
imagine that Alice plays X on this 3x3
grid and Bob plays oh they take turns
hoping to be the first to make three in
a row now as you know if both play
optimally each can block the other
perfectly so that neither player can
make three in a row resulting in a draw
game now let's consider a new game well
first write the numbers 1 through 9 in
the grid to make a magic square we'll
have each row column and diagonal have a
sum of 15 that is this row this row and
this row each role has a sum of 15 each
column has a sum of 15 and each diagonal
has a sum of 15 furthermore this
arrangement is unique up to rotation and
reflection so there's no other three
invest 3 Magic Square with the numbers 1
through 9 and the only triplets will the
sum of 15 are in the rows columns and
diagonals so now consider a game Alice
and Bob takes turns selecting cards and
the first person to have three cards
with the sum of 15 wins let's mark
Alice's cards within X and Bob's cards
with an O now after the second move Bob
has to block Alice's three in a row by
picking 9 now Alice has to block the
three in a row by picking one Bob play
somewhere and then Alice has to block
three in a row by picking three
then bob has to block and then the game
ends in a draw as you can see the
strategies to this game is just like
tic-tac-toe
it played optimally by both the game is
sure to end in a draw you simply pick
numbers in which you would pick the same
spot in tic-tac-toe so how does this
relate to the race to 32,768 what we'll
do is we'll do transformation to each
number for each number x in this magic
square we'll replace it with the new
number 2 to the power of x so the number
4 becomes 2 to the power of 4 which is
16 9 becomes 2 to the power of 9 which
is 512 we'll replace each entry in this
magic square with 2 to the power of that
entry what we have now is a
multiplicative magic square each row
column and diagonal has the product
equal to 2 to the power of 15 which is
32,768 so now we analyze the race to
32,768 if we mark Alice's choices as X's
and Bob's choices as Oz then the game
has the same strategy as tic-tac-toe
after a few moves we know where Alice
has to go to block Bob for making three
numbers who have a product of 32,768
furthermore Bob knows where he has to
pick in order to block Alice's three in
a row so with both play optimally the
game is just like tic-tac-toe and it
should end in a drop not only should it
end in a draw but there is a simple way
that each player can select cards to
block the other player did you figure it
out thanks for watching this video
please subscribe to my channel I make
videos on math and game theory you can
catch me on my blog my near decisions
which you can follow on Facebook Google+
and patreon you can catch me on
Media at Parcells Walker and if you like
this video please check out my books
there are links in the video description